#summary How to use python to do scripting in OCTGN.
<h1>Scripting in Python</h1>

It is possible to directly interact with game elements from scripts written in Python.
<h2>See also</h2>
[how_to_migrate_an_xml_scripts_base_o8g_to_python How to migrate an XML-scripts base o8g to Python]
[python_api OCTGN Python API reference]
game_definition_o8g Game definition (o8g)] and [xml_game_description Xml game description] to learn about how Python actions are called.

<h2>Limitations</h2>
Such scripts execute in a secure sandboxed environnement. Because of that it's impossible to access any resource such as a file on disk or the network. The only thing allowed is drive OCTGN's behavior.<

<h2>About Python</h2>
Python is an excellent scripting language. If you don't know it, you can start with this interactive tutorial (you need Silverlight): [http://www.trypython.org TryPython.org] or this more complete tutorial:  [http://docs.python.org/tutorial/ docs.python.org/tutorial/]

The best reference about Python is [http://python.org/ Python.org], especially the language reference: [http://docs.python.org/ docs.python.org] and the library reference: http://docs.python.org/library/ docs.python.org/library/].

Please note that the version of Python embedded inside OCTGN is mostly 2.7 with some additions coming from the 3.x branch. In the future OCTGN will most probably switch to a Python 3.2 release, so keep that in mind when writing scripts.

<h2>Known Problems</h2>
<ul>
 <li> As of OCTGN 0.9, because of the security sandbox, many errors can't be passed from the Python environment to OCTGN's main program. This has no impact on correct programs but sometimes makes debugging Python code painful.</li>
 <li>As of OCTGN 0.9, the Python scripts do not enforce controlship on the object they manipulate. It is not safe to change the state of cards or groups you don't control, even though the script would let you do that.
 The only functions that are safe to use on elements you don't control are target, highlight, counters and markers manipulations. Of course you can read the state of any element.

 So be very careful to always filter the cards you touch. DO NOT use <code>(c for c in table)</code>; DO use <code>(c for c in table if c.controller == me)</code>.</li>
</ul>